---
author: "UmmIt"
title: "Setting Up mitmproxy with Network Traffic Analysis"
description: ""
tags: ["mitmproxy"]
date: 2023-12-26T04:02:10+0800
---

## Introduction

mitmproxy allows you to intercept and analyze network traffic between your browser and the internet. To set up mitmproxy with Firefox, you need to configure Firefox to use mitmproxy as a proxy. This enables mitmproxy to capture and display all HTTP and HTTPS requests made by Firefox.

## Downloading mitmproxy

1. Visit the official website at: https://mitmproxy.org/
2. Download the Linux Binary file.
3. Extract the tar.gz file with this command:

```shell
tar -xvf mitmproxy-10.1.6-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
```

### Firefox - Proxy Configuration

1. Open Firefox and go to the settings menu by clicking on the three horizontal lines in the upper right corner.

2. Select `Preferences` or `Options` from the menu.

3. In the Preferences or Options window, find and click on `General` in the left sidebar.

4. Scroll down to the `Network Settings` section.

5. Click on the `Settings...` button next to `Configure how Firefox connects to the internet.`

6. In the Connection Settings window, select `Manual proxy configuration.`

7. For both `HTTP Proxy` and `HTTPS Proxy,` enter the value `127.0.0.1` and set the port to `8080`. The `SOCKS Host` just ignore.

> Tips: Or just Set `Also use this proxy for HTTPS.`

9. Click `OK` to close the Connection Settings window.

### Running mitmproxy

There has a few options to use mitmproxy. I recommend use `mitmdump` for the terminal.

1. Open a terminal.

2. Navigate to the directory where mitmproxy is installed.

    ```shell
    cd mitmproxy-bin
    ```

3. Run mitmproxy by executing the following command:

   ```shell
   ./mitmdump
   ```

4. mitmproxy will start, and you will see information about the proxy, including the proxy address (e.g., `http://127.0.0.1:8080`).

5. restart firefox.

#### Viewing Traffic in mitmproxy**

Try to browse the internet in Firefox (launch browser), mitmproxy will capture and display the traffic in the terminal where mitmproxy is running.

For instance:

```shell
❯ ./mitmdump
[04:16:58.699] HTTP(S) proxy listening at *:8080.
[04:18:41.772][127.0.0.1:54868] client connect
[04:18:41.774][127.0.0.1:54876] client connect
[04:18:41.884][127.0.0.1:54868] server connect github.com:443 (20.27.177.113:443)
```

#### Exit mitmproxy

To exit mitmproxy, press `Ctrl + C` in the terminal where mitmproxy is running.

## Conclusion

By following these steps, you have successfully configured Firefox to use mitmproxy as a proxy, allowing you to monitor and analyze the network traffic generated by your browser.
